file_formats/al.md, before:

The format `al` is used to store information related to animation of a [.bwm](/file_formats/bwm.md) skin and most likely stands for animation library. 
The format is found inside the `Art\binary_anim_libs` and knowledge on the format is still quite limited.
Here is a rough overview of how the format is organized.

# Header

The header of the file is as follow :
```
uint32_t magicNumber; //Magic number always equal to 0xFEC
uint32_t unknown; //always equal to FFFF0002
char[64] name;
uint32_t metadataOffset; //needs to add 0x60
uint32_t size; //size of the file minus 0x60
uint32_t animationMetadataCount;
uint32_t[2] unknown1;
uint32_t boneCount;
uint32_t unknown2; // Always 0?
```

# Armature
Define the relation of the different bones between each other as a list of bones.
The index of the bone inside the armature is the same as the bone inside a corresponding [.bwm](/file_formats/bwm.md).
It is not yet known how bwm are linked to their corresponding animation library, bones are organized as follow.
```
char[32] name;
uint32_t parent;
```

# Animation Metadata
A list containing the medata of an animation.
Each animation metadata are as follow :
```
  uint32_t magicNumber; //Magic number always equal to 0xFEC
  uint32_t unknown1; // Always 9
  char name[64];
  uint32_t unknowns1[6]; // The first value is always 3 the rest are zero
  uint32_t boneCount;
  uint32_t frameCount;
  float samplingRate; // Framerate of the animation in Hz
  float duration; // Animation usually samplingRate * frameCount
  // It can be different but this will lead to mismatch in the animation loop.
  uint32_t distance;
  bool isCyclic;
  bool isHierarchical;
  uint16_t empty; // always 0
  uint32_t unknowns2a[2];
  uint32_t unknown4;
  uint32_t unknowns2b[2]; // unknowns2a == ununknowns2b
  uint32_t unknown4;
  uint32_t animationOffset; // Where to find the data of the animation in the file
```

# Animation Data
The majority of the information inside an animation library and right now the least understood part.
## Animation Header
Identical to the associated metadata except for the values inside the unknowns1 array.
```
  uint32_t magicNumber; //Magic number always equal to 0xFEC
  uint32_t unknown1; // Always 9
  char name[64];
  uint32_t unknowns1[5]; // The first value is always 3, last two values are always 0 asfaik.
  uint32_t animEventCount;
  // The second and third value vary from one animation to another
  uint32_t boneCount;
  uint32_t frameCount;
  float samplingRate; // Framerate of the animation in Hz
  float duration; // Animation usually samplingRate * frameCount
  // It can be different but this will lead to mismatch in the animation loop.
  uint32_t distance;
  bool isCyclic;
  bool isHierarchical;
  uint16_t empty; // always 0
  uint32_t unknowns2a[2];
  uint32_t unknown4;
  uint32_t unknowns2b[2]; // unknowns2a == ununknowns2b
  uint32_t unknown4;
```
## Animation Event
An array of Animation Event followed by the name of its element.
### Animation Event
```
uint32_t boneOffset // Offset to the "bone name" from the beginning of the Animation in the file
uint32_t nameOffset // Offset to the name of the event from the beginning of the animation in the file
float axis1[4] // First axis of the rotatio section of a transformation matrix
float axis1[4] // Second axis of the rotation section of a transformation matrix
float axis1[4] // Third axis of the rotatio section of a transformation matrix
float translation[4] // Transformation vector of a transformation matrix
```
### Animation Event Strings
The names pointed by `boneOffset` and `nameOffset` are stored right after the end of the array of animation event as a list of null terminated strings.
They are organised in the following order :
- Name of bone before name of event
- From first Animation Event to last


## Animation Data
Most likely contains keyframes but i don't know how they are organized

Commit message:

Correction on al format
Forgot offset at the end of metada and keeping metadata description up to date with the animation header, adding example to Animation Event Strings.

file_formats/al.md, after:

The format `al` is used to store information related to animation of a [.bwm](/file_formats/bwm.md) skin and most likely stands for animation library. 
The format is found inside the `Art\binary_anim_libs` and knowledge on the format is still quite limited.
Here is a rough overview of how the format is organized.

# Header

The header of the file is as follow :
```
uint32_t magicNumber; //Magic number always equal to 0xFEC
uint32_t unknown; //always equal to FFFF0002
char[64] name;
uint32_t metadataOffset; //needs to add 0x60
uint32_t size; //size of the file minus 0x60
uint32_t animationMetadataCount;
uint32_t[2] unknown1;
uint32_t boneCount;
uint32_t unknown2; // Always 0?
```

# Armature
Define the relation of the different bones between each other as a list of bones.
The index of the bone inside the armature is the same as the bone inside a corresponding [.bwm](/file_formats/bwm.md).
It is not yet known how bwm are linked to their corresponding animation library, bones are organized as follow.
```
char[32] name;
uint32_t parent;
```

# Animation Metadata
A list containing the medata of an animation.
Each animation metadata are as follow :
```
  uint32_t magicNumber; //Magic number always equal to 0xFEC
  uint32_t animationVersion; // Always 9
  char name[64];
  uint32_t animationType; // 3 for hierarchical, no other animation type was met for now
  uint32_t unknowns1[4]; // all values are always 0 asfaik.
  uint32_t animEventCount;
  // The second and third value vary from one animation to another
  uint32_t boneCount;
  uint32_t frameCount;
  float samplingRate; // Framerate of the animation in Hz
  float duration; // Animation usually samplingRate * frameCount
  // It can be different but this will lead to mismatch in the animation loop.
  uint32_t distance;
  bool isCyclic;
  bool isHierarchical;
  uint16_t empty; // always 0
  uint32_t unknowns2a[2];
  uint32_t unknown4;
  uint32_t unknowns2b[2]; // unknowns2a == ununknowns2b
  uint32_t unknown4;
  uint32_t animationOffset; // position of the animation data from the start of the file
```

# Animation Data
The majority of the information inside an animation library and right now the least understood part.
## Animation Header
Identical to the associated metadata except for the values inside the unknowns1 array.
```
  uint32_t magicNumber; //Magic number always equal to 0xFEC
  uint32_t animationVersion; // Always 9
  char name[64];
  uint32_t animationType; // 3 for hierarchical, no other animation type was met for now
  uint32_t unknowns1[4]; // last two values are always 0 asfaik.
  uint32_t animEventCount;
  // The second and third value vary from one animation to another
  uint32_t boneCount;
  uint32_t frameCount;
  float samplingRate; // Framerate of the animation in Hz
  float duration; // Animation usually samplingRate * frameCount
  // It can be different but this will lead to mismatch in the animation loop.
  uint32_t distance;
  bool isCyclic;
  bool isHierarchical;
  uint16_t empty; // always 0
  uint32_t unknowns2a[2];
  uint32_t unknown4;
  uint32_t unknowns2b[2]; // unknowns2a == ununknowns2b
  uint32_t unknown4;
```
## Animation Event
An array of Animation Event followed by the name of its element.
### Animation Event
```
uint32_t boneOffset // Offset to the "bone name" from the beginning of the animation in the file
uint32_t nameOffset // Offset to the name of the event from the beginning of the animation in the file
float axis1[4] // First axis of the rotatio section of a transformation matrix
float axis1[4] // Second axis of the rotation section of a transformation matrix
float axis1[4] // Third axis of the rotatio section of a transformation matrix
float translation[4] // Transformation vector of a transformation matrix
```
### Animation Event Strings
The names pointed by `boneOffset` and `nameOffset` are stored right after the end of the array of animation event as a list of null terminated strings.
They are organised in the following order :
- Name of bone before name of event
- From first Animation Event to last

Example from the a_bear_die animation in bear.al, you can find the following strings (`�` are null character).
```
LHAnimEvent04�::FOOTSTEPS.99�LHAnimEvent03�::FOOTSTEPS.99�LHAnimEvent05�::POLARHITGROUND.99�LHAnimEvent01�::POLAR1.99�
```
You then have `LHAnimEvent04` as bone name and `::FOOTSTEPS.99` as event name for the first event,
`LHAnimEvent03` as bone name and `::FOOTSTEPS.99` as event name for the second event,
and so on for the rest.

## Animation Data
Most likely contains keyframes but i don't know how they are organized
